.\" man page for prt-get
.\" Johannes Winkelmann, jw@tks6.net
.\" 
.\" my first man page, so forgive me for the errors :-)
.\" 
.\" .PU
.TH "prt-get" "8" "" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
prt\-get \- an advanced package management tool to be used with
pkgutils from CRUX (see http://www.crux.nu)
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B prt\-get command [options] <arguments>
.br 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
prt\-get is a package management tool which provides additional
functionality to crux' package management system. It works with the
local ports tree and is therefore fully compatible with ports(8) and
pkgmk(8)/pkgadd(8). It offers the following features:

.PP
.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
abstract ports installation/update from file system

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
install/update a list of packages with one command

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
list dependencies for a list of packages

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
show information about ports

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
search within the ports

.PP 

What prt\-get basically does is installing and upgrading packages, using
pkgmk and pkgadd. Additionally, you don't have be in the port's
directory to call prt\-get. prt\-get will search for the respective port
itself in a list of directories specified in /etc/prt\-get.conf. This
allows you to just install or update a package, without caring where
it actually is located on your file system.

.PP 

prt\-get also offers some features like searching ports by name,
showing information about ports (without installing them of course)
and can list the dependencies listed in the Pkgfile, and provide a
complete dependency list for a port. Note that dependencies are no
requirement for crux packages and therefore not always accurate. There's
a possiblity to use an external dependency map to get dependency
listings for ports which don't provide them in their Pkgfile.

.PP 

prt\-get has a test mode so you can see what effect an install/update
operation would have. Use the \-\-test switch for this (see also:
OPTIONS)

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
prt\-get returns 0 on success and a non-zero value otherwise (exact
value -> meaning mapping to be determined...)

.SH "COMMANDS"
prt\-get uses so called commands, which always have to be the first 
non-option argument passed. This is very similar to
.B cvs(1).
[command] can be one of the following:


.TP 
.B install [\-\-margs] [\-\-aargs] [\-\-log] <package1> [<package2> ...]
install all packages in the listed order. Note that you can do this
from any directory

.TP 
.B depinst [\-\-margs] [\-\-aargs] [\-\-log] <package1> [<package2> ...]
install all packages in the listed order including their dependencies.
Note that outdated packages won't be updated.

.TP 
.B grpinst [\-\-margs] [\-\-aargs]  [\-\-log] <package1> [<package2> ...]
install all packages in the listed order, but stop if installation of
one package fails. This can be used to install packages where package2
depends on package1

.TP 
.B update [\-\-margs] [\-\-aargs]  [\-\-log] <package1> [<package2> ...]
update all packages listed in this order

.TP 
.B remove <package1> [<package2> ...]
remove packages listed in this order

.TP 
.B sysup [\-\-nodeps]
Update all installed packages which are outdated. Sorts by dependencies
by default. If you don't want prt-get to resolve the dependencies, use
the --nodeps switch. Also see the
.B lock
and
.B unlock
commands to keep the currently installed versions, even if there are
changes in the ports tree. If you want to update only diffs which have
a lower version installed than the one in the ports tree, use the
--prefer-higher option.

.TP 
.B lock <package1> [<package2>...]
Do not update these packages in a
.B sysup
operation

.TP 
.B unlock <package1> [<package2>...] 
Remove lock from these packages

.TP 
.B listlocked [-v|-vv]
List names of packages which are locked. As always,
.B -v
will additionally show the version, and
.B -vv
also includes the description from the Pkgfile. Note that the
.B -vv
switch will slow down the operation remarkably.

.TP 
.B diff [--all] [<package1> <package2> ...]
show differences between installed packages and ports in the ports
tree. If arguments are given, shows only differences for these
packages, otherwise all differences are shown. It's also possible to use
shell like
.B wildcards
for the diff command. Make sure you escape where needed. Locked
packages are only displayed if you use the --all switch. If you want
to see only diffs which have a lower version installed than the one in
the ports tree, use the --prefer-higher option.

.TP 
.B quickdiff
prints a simple list of packages which have a different version in the
ports tree than what is installed. This is meant as an input for
.B prt\-get update,
so you can update all ports on your system with one simple command. If you want
to see only diffs which have a lower version installed than the one in
the ports tree, use the --prefer-higher option.

.TP 
.B search [\-v|\-vv] [--path] [--regex]<expr>
Search the ports tree for
.B expr
in their name

.TP 
.B dsearch [\-v|\-vv] [--path]  [--regex]<expr>
Search the ports tree for
.B expr
in both name and description. The search in the description is not case
sensitive. Note that this requires prt\-get to read every Pkgfile, which
makes it rather slow; if you like this, consider using the cache
functionality, so you only have to spend this time once after updating
the ports tree has been updated.

.TP 
.B fsearch [--full] [--regex] <pattern>
Search the ports tree for
.B pattern
as file name in their footprint. When called without '--full', strips
the directories from the file names before matching; this behaviour
will change in prt-get 0.6, where full path search will be
default. Pattern can be a shell-like wildcard pattern (e.g prt-get
fsearch "*.h") or regexps.


.TP 
.B info <port>
Print available info for a port 

.TP 
.B path <port>
Print the path of a port

.TP 
.B readme <port>
Print the port's README file if it exists; if set, uses $PAGER

.TP 
.B depends <package1> [<package2> ...]
print a recursive list of dependencies to install the packages passed
as argument. It shows a list with ports which are found, plus a list
of ports which are missing

.TP 
.B quickdep <package1> [<package2> ...]
print a simple list of recursive dependencies for all the ports passed
as argument in a simple format to be used by
.B prt\-get install
to make an install including dependencies
.B Does not display dependencies which are not in the ports tree

.TP 
.B dependent <package>
print a list of package which depend on
.B package.
 
Usually shows dependent packages which are installed. To see all dependencies,
add the --all switch; use --recursive to get a recursive list (without
duplication), and --tree to get a nicely indented one

.TP 
.B deptree <package>
print a tree of the dependencies of the package
.B package. 
Subtrees already shown are marked with '-->' to save some space, in
order to show them all, add the --all switch

.TP 
.B dup [-v] [format]
List ports which can be found in multiple directories configured in
.B /etc/prt-get.conf
Use the verbose switch to simulate the output of version 5.12 and older (likely
to go away in the future). The format string can be used to create user
specified formats. The following symbols are currently replaced:

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%n \-> name of the port

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%p1 \-> Full path (including name) to port taking precendence

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%p2 \-> Full path (including name) to port being hidden

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%v1 \-> Version of port taking precendence

.TP
\ \ \ \(bu
%v2 \-> Version of port being hidden


.TP 
.B list [\-v|\-vv] [filter] [--path] [--regex]
List ports available in the ports tree. It's basically the same as
.B ports \-l
but looks in all directories specified in
.B /etc/prt\-get.conf.
It's also possible to use
shell like
.B wildcards
for the list command. Make sure you escape where needed

.TP 
.B printf <format string1> [\-\-sort=<format string2>] [\-\-filter=<filter>]
Print formated port list format string can contain variables, which
are replaced like this:
.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%n \-> name

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%p \-> path

.TP
\ \ \ \(bu
%v \-> version

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%r \-> release

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%d \-> description

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%e \-> dependencies

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%u \-> URL

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%P -> Packager

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%M -> Maintainer

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%R -> Readme ("yes"/"no")

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%E -> pre-install script ("yes"/"no")

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%O -> post-install script ("yes"/"no")

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%l -> is locked ("yes"/"no")

.TP 
\ \ \ \(bu
%i \-> "no" if not installed, "yes" if it's installed and
up to date and "diff" if it's installed and a new version is in the
ports tree.

Use "\\n" and "\\t" to format your output (no additional format specified
suported). The optional format string2 can contain the same variables
as format string1 and is used to sort the output. You can specify a
.B wildcard filter
to filter by package name.


.TP 
.B listinst [\-v|\-vv] [filter] [--regex] [--depsort]
List installed ports. It's basically the same as
.B pkginfo \-i,
but omits version when called without verbose (\-v, \-vv) switch. Plus
it is notably faster in my tests. \-v adds version information, \-vv
adds version and description.
.B Warning:
\-vv will slow down the process because it requires prt\-get to scan
both the ports database and the ports tree.
It's also possible to use shell like
.B wildcards
for the listinst command. Make sure you escape where needed. Finally, by
default it's sorted alphabetically; use the \-\-depsort switch to sort by
dependencies

.TP 
.B listorphans [\-v|\-vv]
List installed ports which have no dependent packages



.TP 
.B isinst <package>
Check whether a package is installed. The same as
.B pkginfo \-i|grep ^package
.TP 

.TP
.B current <package>
Prints out the version of the currently installed package


.TP
.B ls [--path] <package>
Prints out a listing of the port's directory

.TP
.B cat <package> [<file>]
Prints out the file to stdout. If <file> is not specified, 'Pkgfile' is used. If set, uses $PAGER

.TP
.B edit <package> <file>
Edit the file using the editor specified in the $EDITOR environment variable.
If <file> is not specified, 'Pkgfile' is used


.TP 
.B help
Shows a help screen

.TP 
.B dumpconfig
Dump the configuration to the current terminal 

.TP 
.B version 
Shows the current version of prt\-get

.TP 
.B cache
create a cache file from the ports tree to be used by prt\-get using the
\-\-cache option. Remember to run prt\-get cache each time you update the
ports tree

.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
.B -f, -i
Force install; Implies 'pkgadd -f'; same as --aargs=-f

.TP
.B -fr
Force rebuild, Implies 'pkgmk -f'; same as --margs=-f

.TP
.B -um
Update md5sum, implies 'pkgmk -um'; same as --margs=-um

.TP
.B -im
Ignore md5sum, implies 'pkgmk -im'; same as --margs=-im

.TP
.B -uf
Update footprint, implies 'pkgmk -uf'; same as --margs=-uf

.TP
.B -if
Ignore footprint, implies 'pkgmk -if'; same as --margs=-if

.TP
.B -ns
No stripping, implies 'pkgmk -ns'; same as --margs=-ns

.TP
.B -kw
Keep working directory, implies 'pkgmk -kw'; same as --margs=-kw

.TP
.B --ignore=<package1,package2,...>
Don't install those packages, even if they're listed as dependency


.TP 
.B \-\-cache
Use cache file for this command

.TP 
.B \-\-test
Dry run, don't actually install anything, mostly interesting for
.B prt\-get install, prt\-get grpinst, prt\-get update, prt\-get sysup

.TP 
.B \-\-pre-install
Execute pre-install script if it's there

.TP 
.B \-\-post-install
Execute post-install script if it's there

.TP 
.B \-\-install-scripts
Execute pre-install and post-install script if they're there

.TP 
.B \-\-no-std-config
Don't parse the default configuration file

.TP 
.B \-\-config-prepend=<string>
Prepend <string> to configuration

.TP 
.B \-\-config-append=<string>
Append <string> to configuration

.TP 
.B \-\-config-set=<string>
Set <string> in configuration, overriding configuration file


.TP 
.B \-v, \-vv
verbose and more verbose, relevant for
.B prt\-get search, prt\-get list
verbose shows version of a port, more verbose shows version and
description (if available)

.TP
.B \-\-path
Show path info; used in 'search', 'dsearch', 'list' and 'depends'

.TP
.B \-\-regex
Interpret filter and search pattern as regular expression

.TP 
.B \-\-margs="...", e.g. \-\-margs="\-im"
arguments to be passed to pkgmk, relevant for
.B prt\-get install, prt\-get grpinst, prt\-get update
note that \-d is already passed to pkgmk anyway

.TP 
.B \-\-aargs="...", e.g. \-\-aargs="\-f"
arguments to be passed to pkgadd, relevant for
.B prt\-get install, prt\-get grpinst, prt\-get update

.TP 
.B \-\-rargs="..."
arguments to be passed to pkgrm; currently not used, implemented for
future uses and consistency reasons

.TP
.B \-\-prefer-higher, -ph
Make prt-get parse the version strings and prefer the higher version,
even if the one found in the ports tree is lower. Will influence diff,
quickdiff and sysup.

.TP
.B \-\-strict-diff, -sd
Override the 'preferhigher' configuration option


.TP 
.B \-\-config=<file>
Use alternative configuration file to read ports directories from

.TP
.B \-\-install-root=<dir>
Use <dir> as root directory for your installation; allows to install to
a different directory than '/'. In daily usage, this option is not
required; helpful if you're developing an independent installation.

.TP 
.B \-\-log
Write build output to log file

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.TP 
See man prt\-get.conf(5)

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 
.B prt\-get install irssi
download, build and install irssi, with one simple command

.TP 
.B prt\-get install indent mplayer
install indent and mplayer

.TP 
.B prt\-get update openssh
update your current version of openssh :\-)

.TP 
.B prt\-get info kdelibs
show info about kdelibs

.TP 
.B prt\-get search icq
Search all ports containing 'icq' in their name

.TP 
.B prt\-get grpinst \-\-test `prt\-get quickdep kdenetwork`
Show what would happen if you installed all packages needed for
kdenetwork (test mode). Remove \-\-test to install kdenetwork and all
it's dependencies. Remember that grpinst stops installing when one
installing of one package fails

.TP 
.B prt\-get update `prt\-get quickdiff`
Update all packages where a different version is in the ports tree

.SH "AUTHORS"
Johannes Winkelmann <jw@tks6.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
prt\-get.conf(5), prt\-cache(8), pkgmk(8) pkgadd(8), ports(8)
