.\" man page for prt-get.conf
.\" Johannes Winkelmann, jw@tks6.net


.PU
.TH prt-get.conf 5
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
prt-get.conf - Configuration file for prt-get

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This file, by default
.IR /etc/prt-get.conf ,
is read by prt-get and prt-cache (see prt-get(8) and prt-cache(8))
.LP
It might look like this:
.IP
.nf
###
# prt-get.conf

# root directories
prtdir /usr/ports/base
prtdir /usr/ports/opt
prtdir /usr/ports/contrib

prtdir /usr/ports/unofficial

# use mutt and yafc from local build directory
prtdir /home/jw/build:mutt, yafc

# change default location of cache file
cachefile /tmp/port-cache

# write a log file
writelog enabled
logmode append
logfile /tmp/log/%n.log

# show compact readme information
readme compact

# execute pre- and post-installs scripts (default no)
runscripts yes

# don't prefer higher versions (default no)
preferhigher yes

# use regexps for searching (default no)
useregex yes
.fi

.LP
There are a few values to be configured: the location where to look
for the ports, the location of the cache file, some log options and
how to notify the user about README files.

If you don't specify the
cache file, the default location is
.B /var/lib/pkg/prt-get.conf

.LP
Every line can contain one configuration option. The format of the lines
is
.B <key> <value>.
The valid keys are
.B prtdir
and
.B cachefile.
The value for 
.B prtdir 
is a directory, the value for
.B cachefile
is a file to be used as cache

.nf
<portname1>:<dependency1> <dependency2>
<portname2>:<dependency1>

.B runscripts
if set to yes, execute pre- and post-install scripts

.B preferhigher
if set to yes, prt-get will parse version strings and prefer the
higher one, even if the one found in the ports tree is lower. Will
influence diff, quickdiff and sysup

.B useregex
if set to yes, prt-get will interpret search and filter patterns in
list, listinst, printf, search, dsearch and fsearch as regular
expressions. This will be the default in prt-get 0.6.

.LP
.B makecommand
.B addcommand
.B removecommand
.B runscriptcommand
can be used to use an alternate command instead of 'pkgmk' for the
makecommand,'pkgadd' for the addcommand, 'pkgrm' for the
removecommand and 'sh' for the command which is used to run the pre- and
post-install scripts. These are expert options which shouldn't be used
in general; when used the wrong way, they can completely break prt-get's
original functionality.



.LP
The log options are
.B writelog
which can be set to 'enabled' or 'disabled'
.B logmode
which can be set to 'append' or 'overwrite'
.B logfile
which represent the file path. All occurances of %n in logfile are
replaced with the port name and all occurances of  %p are
replaced with the port's path, e.g. for port gcc in base, %p would be
.B /usr/base
and %n
.B gcc.
This allows you to have separate log files per port. 

.LP
If the readme option is set to something different than 'disabled',
prt-get will notify the user if she/he installs a port with a README
file. The option to configure this is called
.B readme
which can be set to 'verbose' (print separate information about README
files), 'compact' (integrate in result output) or 'disabled' (no information about README files). See
.B prt-get(8)
and especially the readme command how to read those README files using
prt-get

.LP
The order of the prtdir options is important, as if a port is in multiple
directories, prt-get will use the one found first (directories listed
first have precedence)

.LP
If you want to restrict the ports used from one prtdir, you can
append a comma separated list of ports to be used after the path,
using a colon (':') character to separate the two components
.B path:package1, package2,...
Note that this slows down prt-get a lot if you list a lot of packages.
If you become aware of speed problems due to this, create a separate
ports directory instead and use symlinks for the ports you want to use

.LP
You can write comments after a '#' character. If you have '#'
characters in you pathes, there's no way to escape them (as there is no
way to escape ':' characters). Complain to the author if this is a 
problem :-)


.SH "AUTHORS"
Johannes Winkelmann <jw@tks6.net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
prt-get(8), pkgmk(8) pkgadd(8), ports(8)
